---
title: "📦 unRAID"
excerpt: "How to install Libre Photos on Unraid using Docker Compose."
last_modified_at: 2022-04-30
category: 1
---

## Community App

We are now also a [community app](https://unraid.net/community/apps?q=LibrePhotos#r) based on the singleton image.

## Docker Compose

You have to download docker-compose. You can add the following to your /boot/config/go file to make sure it's always available:

```bash
curl -L "https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/download/v2.5.0/docker-compose-$(uname -s)-$(uname -m)" -o /usr/local/bin/docker-compose
chmod +x /usr/local/bin/docker-compose
```

Check if it's working:

```bash
docker-compose --version
```

You'll need to create a folder under /mnt/user (e.g. librephotos) within there you'll need two files:

```bash
mkdir /mnt/user/librephotos && cd /mnt/user/librephotos
```

Download this file and save it as .env:

```bash
wget -O .env https://raw.githubusercontent.com/LibrePhotos/librephotos-docker/main/librephotos.env
```

​Download this file to same directory but keep the original name:

```bash
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/LibrePhotos/librephotos-docker/main/docker-compose.yml
```

You'll need to edit the .env file with paths to your photos (myPhotos) and possibly the timeZone variable. Optionally you'll want to grab a mapbox API key as documented in the file. Keep note of the default http port, 3000.
You should have LibrePhotos accessible after a few minutes of boot-up on unraidip:3000 unless you changed this in the .env file. The username is admin & the password is admin unless you changed them in the .env file. It is recommended you change the admin username and password if LibrePhotos is going to be publicly accessible. This is done via the .env file.

​Once done you can fire up the containers by typing:

```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

This will cause the containers to startup in the background. You can check the status of them by running:

```bash
docker logs {container name}
```

You can get a name for each of the containers by typing:

```bash
docker ps | grep librephoto
```

Finally, you can access the UI by going to http://unraidip:3000

First thing you'll want to do in the UI is go to the drop down menu located at the top right under avatar and select Admin Area.

You'll need to set your "Scan Directory" which should be /data.

Go back to the drop down and select Settings. Scroll to the bottom and select Scan photos from bottom left. You'll see some activity on your server as the photos are being processed. You can check on them by going to Photos on the top left of the UI and select recently added.
​

You can also monitor progress from shell prompt by tailing this file:

```bash
tail -f librephotos_logs/ownphotos.log
```

To shut everything down:

```bash
docker-compose down
```

If you want to grab any updates you can type:

```bash
docker-compose pull
```

## docker-compose issues when rebooting

After a reboot docker-compose is not installed anymore, since unRAID loads everything from ram. Someone created a Docker Compose Manager app in the Apps catalog for unRAID. This makes sure docker-compose is installed everytime you reboot unRAID and they are currently working on a WebGUI.

Thanks to [u/Tusc00](https://old.reddit.com/user/Tusc00) and Martijn (Spiek90) for this [write up](https://old.reddit.com/r/unRAID/comments/knaniy/librephotos/goeyy4l/)!

## Next Steps

Next, take a look at the [first steps after setup]({% post_url user_guide/0000-02-01-first_steps %}).
